I have the filter dash content dot P HP file opened.
If you don't remember this function will filter the recipe content and display the recipe information
along with the rating inside the function.
We use the global w PDB object to make a raw query.
This query simply gets the number of ratings a recipe has.
I'm going to add some line breaks before and after this query so that you can see it more clearly just
like any other query.
It's important to sanitize any data we add to it.
We should always take the steps necessary to secure our plugins and themes.
WordPress has a method for securing queries by providing the prepare method.
This method works similarly to PJ PPO is prepared statements.
They aren't hard to understand or use this method will simply sanitize a query before it's executed.
This method requires two things.
The query itself and the data that should be sanitize let's prepare this query.
It's very simple.
First we're going to wrap this query around the method from the WP DB object called prepare.
I'm going to format this a bit by putting the query on its own line.
This method has two parameters.
It accepts a query as the first parameter and then the second parameter is the data to sanitize.
If we have more than one piece of data like in our query then we can keep passing in more data.
This function is pretty flexible and can grow to as many parameters as we need it to.
There are two pieces of variables I want to sanitize which is the post I.D. and the IP pass these in
line so
this won't work just yet.
This method has our query and the data but they're not tied together.
How does it know where to place the sanitized data.
Well we'll need to use the special place holders created by WordPress.
There the usual place holders percent s percent D and percent F where percent S is for strings.
Percent D is for integers and percent F is for floating numbers.
Replace these values with the correct place holders the post IED should be percent D and the IP should
be percent.
S That's it.
This method will take in all this information and then return a sanitized query for the actual method
that will run this query.
Let's try checking out a recipe now.
Here's a recipe we made earlier.
So far we have no errors.
Let's try reading this recipe and refreshing the page.
Still no errors in our rating was saved using prepared statements is one of the best ways to protect
herself against sequel injections.
Prepared statement should be used for sequel queries for methods like the insert or delete method.
The WP DV object will already create a sanitized query for you.
Here is what I want you to do now.
I want you to go through our plugin and look for more raw queries and prepare them like we did with
this query.